We worked on the admin side and on the basic product,
let's now add a user again and let's see how we can add a user model, how we can connect it to a product
and so on.
For that I'll go to my user.js file in the models folder
and first of all, I want to import mongoose here by requiring mongoose, like that.
So let's now work on the user schema.
Well first of all, we need define the schema, so the user schema. The user schema is defined by using something
from the mongoose package which you don't have to
but I will store in a separate constant,
so mongoose schema. With that we can call new schema down there
and I pass a javascript object to that constructor and in that object, we describe how a user should
look like.
Now here I will say that I want to have a name where the type of data will be a string and this will
be required.
As a next field, I want to have an email as well,
this will be of type string and this will also be required like that.
Now we also used a cart before and I still want to embed the cart into my user document, that hasn't
changed just because we use mongoose.
So we'll add my cart here and now in that cart, that will be an embedded document and we can define
it just like that,
I will add items here and items will be an array
and this is how you define that you want to store an array in here, you simply create an array and then
you add, what is inside of this array?
You could say an array of strings if you have an array of strings or numbers or booleans or an array
of well documents, that of course is also possible.
Now I want to have an array of documents where I have a product ID which I'll configure with this document
here, I'll come back to that and I'll have a quantity and the quantity I'll configure that right away will
have a type of number and is required.
Now what's the product ID here
though? The product ID will have a type of and now I need to get something from the schema, there
we have a types field and there we got all these special types like object ID,
so I'm telling mongoose that this will actually store an objectid because it will store a reference
to a product and that this also is required.
Now that is a bit of a more complex schema therefore because we have an embedded document and we have
an array of then even embedded documents
but this is how a user should look like.
Now just as before, I'll export this by calling mongoose model, give this a name and the name will be
user
hence this will be stored in a users collection because mongoose will automatically take the plural
lowercase version of that as a collection name and I pass my user schema here.
Ok so now we get everything we need to inform mongoose how a user should look like,
now of course I want to work with a user. And for that I'll go back to the app.js file and I will
actually create a user here
before we start listening. For that let me import the user model again in app.js
and with that import added, I can create a new user by simply calling new user and just as before, I pass
a javascript object where I configure it, where I assign a name, where I assign an email and where I also
need to set my cart and that cart will have an array of, well empty items.
So this is my user,
I can then call user save and this will be done when I start my server.
So here after it restarted we should have a user already, if we refreshed the overall database server,
we indeed see our users and there we see one user with that nested data.
So now with that user created, it's that ID I'm interested in,
so let me copy that ID and go back to the app.js file and comment this middleware back in. Here
I again will find a user by ID,
I just need to paste in that ID of that user we just created. Find by ID is a method provided by mongoose
so this will work,
we get back the user here then and then I can simply store that user in my request and keep in mind, this
is a full mongoose model so we can call all these mongoose model functions or methods on that user
object and therefore also on the user object which I do store here.
So this should work, if I now save this for every incoming request, it should actually give us that user.
Now one issue is that with every restart of the server, we also create a new user
as you can see here,
so let me delete that new user because I have my user creation code down there and I don't check whether
I want to create one or not.
So what I'll quickly do is I will first of all see if we do have a user with user find one and find
one with if I give it no arguments will always give me back the first user it finds and then here in
the then block, I will have my user object and only if this is undefined so if it is not set, only then
I will create a new user.
So therefore now if I refresh this we shouldn't have a new user, if I however delete that first user
here and I therefore temporarily get rid of that let's say and I save and it restarts, now if refresh
my users collection I do have a new user and now I just need to grab that ID and paste it back in here
and now we get a set up where I don't constantly create new users.
Ok so this is how we add a user model and how we basically use it
but now of course we want to use it in conjunction with the products model and with the products.
So let's do that in the next lecture.